Step 2: Describe process(es).
OK, so once we've found and prioritized our automation super candidates and decided that we want to automate
the processes, we need to describe the process in detail. And this is done in what we call a "Process
Definition Document" (PDD).
The document contains the high level flow of the manual process, and it is usually used as a platform
from which the automated solution will be designed. Companies have different views on how a "Process
Definition Document" (or a PDD) should look like and what it should contain.
But as a minimum, I recommend you to include at least the following:
So first we have the process flow description or the AS-IS process description.
This could be illustrated using flowcharts, screenshots or other supporting company documentations.
This should be done both high level so that it's easy to follow and understand the process; and it should
be done at a very detailed level,
click-by-click, for the RPA developer to see what is actually done today by the people doing the process
manually.
Then we have process facts, and these are facts like those used to evaluate the process,
so number of transactions a month, the task time, the automation potential, etc..
Then we have IT systems, which is used in the process - and a description of what they are used for.
So, for example, we could say that we used the ERP system SAP for collecting the data.
We use Microsoft Excel for making a report.
We use Microsoft Outlook for sending the report on email and we use Microsoft One Drive for uploading
the report backup.
Process exceptions.
So we should have a list of exceptions that may occur during the process and what the robot should do
in each of these cases. So exceptions can be both known and unknown.
For example, let's say that the email or password the robot uses to log into a web application
has expired and an error message pops up. Then the robot can send an email to the process owner.
And for any unknown exception, the robot should, for instance, notify the process owner and the RPA
developer.
It's a very important part of building a well functioning RPA initiative that your enterprise have
clear routines and protocols for handling exceptions.
In some cases, exceptions can be handled by running the robots again, while other times the process
must be run manually.
Lastly, we have the business area and department affected.
For example, if the solution introduces a new work routine and the Finance Director would need
to verify the automated entries, this must be clear from the "Process Definition Document".
Also, this section should include some information on how the process will be sponsored and where to
allocate the associated cost of automating the business process.
Luckily, there are numerous tools you can use to help describe your processes, and that will make
creating the "Process Definition Document" a lot faster,
and here are some tools you may consider:
First, we have Lucidchart.
Lucidchart is an online tool that helps you create process flow descriptions and there is no download
needed and you will come a long way using the free version.
We also have diagrams.net, which is formally known as draw.io, which is another free online
software to help you create process flow descriptions.
And then we have Microsoft's very own Visio, which is part of Microsoft Office 365 and available to
most enterprises using Microsoft software.
And then if you've chosen UiPath as your RPA vendor, they also have their very own tool called
the UiPath Task Capture.
Task Capture comes along as you move through a work process you'd like to automate, taking screenshots
and gathering data for each step.
Then it pulls everything together into a draft "Process Definition Document", ready for you to fill in
the details,
and it also creates a UiPath workflow skeleton or diagram, that your RPA developer may open in
UiPath to start automating the process.
Once you install this software, you can quickly document a process by capturing employee steps in
the graphical user interface of the computer. You can create a detailed process description and enhance it
with subject matter experts feedback,
and then you can output the data as a "Process Definition Document" and a workflow skeleton or diagram
to be used in UiPath studio.
So it's a very handy tool.
I've added an example of a PDD document provided by UiPath in the downloadable resources of this training,
so that you can have a look and get an idea of what such a document may look like before creating one
for your company. Once the "Process Definition Document" is approved by relevant stakeholders,
we go to step three of the basic plan for implementing RPA in your organization.